4/22/2020 Working on Interface - Josh
Finished Item issue, wanted to have a different exit button title at the top of
list for combat and interface, so that's why I now have two diffrent item list
scenes, one for combat the other for the interface and two seperate itemList 
scripts. Not that intuitive but there wasn't a way to pass a parameter to item
script or have it check what scene it's in. Well...

Ok fixed that reverting some work but it's more simple. Weird err in output can't
find what is trying to load source code. I'll restart and see what happens.
Restarting fixed the issue, also button in interface to quit still works. 

I need to come up with functionality for each item when clicked:
1) subtracts item count unless tool, remove item if x0
2) broadcasts what item was clicked
3) Interpret broadcast to do something meaningful
All this needs to interact with a dictonary or datatype of invetory so the item
list loads the buttons with what items the player has at a time
Also) Subtracting an item needs to subtract the player dictonary as well when 
button clicked, whether that's through the signal the dictonary recomplies and 
then the item list refreshes accordingly... actually that makes most sense I'll
do that. I hope.





4/20/2020 Wow, been a while - Josh
Looks like I'm lazier than I thought, haven't put anything in the log for a month.

World map is not working, spent 4 weeks trying to not make character sprite
jitter and have normal travel but it's not worth it anymore. Shifting gears to an
'Adventure Interface' That will have options as buttons at the bottom of the 
screen. Info in text can be displayed in a type of over head description, like 
text at the beginning of the movie. Using a rich text box for the scroll option.
I have an animation player animating the text crawl and I want it to scroll to 
the bottom as it animates but the text box just jumps to the bottom on default.
So, keep descriptions short I guess?

I decided to go to this format for exploring the world because it's more similar
to text based games, which I have better experience with. I have buttons already
applied for Attack, Investigate, Items, and Rest, but I will hide those and only
have the buttons up for which options are avalible to the player at the moment.

I will need a script to create a button inside of a margin container to match 
the others, and be able to connect it's signal to another function that changes
the scenario or somthing. It's a little confusing, also need to remember to 
delete buttons I make to save memory.

I just got really tired I'm going to go to bed.




3/22/2020 Carona Quarantine - Josh
Guess I have plenty of time to work on this game now.

Yeah it's been a minute since I wrote in the log, I have been doing stuff in the
game though. I have a scene for a world map where the character clicks on buttons
to go to the next encounter. I plan to have a minimenu pop up when you arrive at
a destination. Since it takes a certain amount of time to reach each place, I 
imagine random encounters will pop up when you move from place to place, only
on certain paths however. I also want to make scripted encounters a thing mid 
travel. 

It took me longer than I would've liked to get a character from point to point,
I had to make a KinematicBody so the move function would actually work, it still
jitters sometimes when it reaches the point, ugh. I currently have all the butts
in the scene but I believe I can spawn them through a seperate scene. That might
be unnecessary since the game is scripted, so that may not be a problem to create
them through code.

Oh and a huge issue was that the icon wouldn't go directly onto the button, it
would go to the side. After a lot of tinkering I have the buttons with an offset
so that their point of rotation isn't in the top left corner, but in the center.
It doesn't make the buttons scale nicely but that can be fixed on case to case
bases. Thinking of changing the hover texture it looks a little weird.

Also, need to program that I can't click on another button as the player is 
moving. It's hard to click another button when moving but still possible.

Oh and yeah background sprite needs to be updated but this is still in concept
phase. Need to have an encounter come up after a 'yes/no' option when reaching
destination. Just jam to Paramore and let's do this.

Fixed hover texture looks great now. Still debating on necessity of having
destination buttons from a scene, because I need to tailor each one when I place
it. Currently working on semitransparent UI for when you reach a destination. 
Need to somehow encode on the button what actions should pop up, and then have
those buttons open up either dialogue scenes or combat options. Investigate can
bring up a small graphic or something with text describing it. I'm going to poop
and watch some YouTube rn.

I now have exported variables for each destination so you can customise what
comes up. Also description text can be modified, it's not implemented yet though.
Need to come up with popUp dialoge. I like the built in popup stuff but I don't 
like the bar on top of it. Thinking of changing that by scripting a panel to act
like a pop up with a button saying 'ok' on it. Probably will be from custom scene.

Would be interested to see what types of animations I can do through an animation
player... also the description should have a timer displaying the disc like
dialog, just decided. I'm worried what kinda weird map I have to make so that
buttons aren't clickable a certain distance away. I'm thinking array that cycles
what buttons are clickable each time you go to a destination.

Also it's really cool that I have Adobe thanks to being a IUPUI student, go Jags!

Description from investigation now pops up and can be clicked away. I added an
input event called mouseDown that I'll probably use for future reference. It was
thinking it was clicking the desc away the minute it came up, whoops so I fixed 
that. Now every destination with a description can have the popup come up and 
animate the text as it comes on with the timer. I think I can change the timer 
delay if I want to make it more spooky or something but i dunno if I ever do.

Good progress today, excited to keep working over spring break and rest of 
quarentine. Woo hoo! Not really it's kinda sad. Just surviving.




3/10/2020 Enlongated Smart - Josh
Haven't researched animation players. I'll do that now.

Awesome! Now I have the enemyPlayer animate their attack from the same animator
of the enemy stats. Epic. Also if you clicked fast enough, the player could deal
damage before the enemy could respond, so that's fixed. I have the enemy turn 
panel disapear in the findEnemyAttack method, which fixed that problem.

Now I could start drawing an actual scraplin, or make an animation for the
enemy taking damage. Decisions decisions...

Made an animation. For damage and death. Programming wise it isn't that hard to 
put it in when you make the animation. They aren't perfect, but they're a great 
proof of concept. I've made this edit in the Desktop GitHub cloned repository, so
I hope it works when I upload it. 



3/9/2020 Finished some YouTube - Josh
Keep forgetting to write DevLogs. Not much has changed, test party now has
profiles of 3 John faces. With their titles edited too. Working on enemy attack
functionality, close to an actual game! Currently thinking we will need multiple
animation players for enemy hurt animation, enemy attack animation(s) maybe an
AnimationTreePlayer or node like that would help? Not sure so far. 

Right now, working on having the enemy deal damage to a character. 

Alright, now the functionality is put in to stop players from attacking enemies
while in animation. Noticed Goblin can still attack when he's dead, will fix that.

Animations need to exist so you can actually see the Enemy Turn panel. 

Work on victory theme and researching managing multiple animation players...

Victory theme implemented and updataed player turn input. Going to publish to
GitHub because I said I would in slack.
Research next,



3/7/2020 10:19? - Josh
I had to move 2 different houses today. I feel alright, but it took all day. Ugh.
I really wanted to work on this, but it's so late. Oh well. I got Spotify.

Yeah I can't do this. Too tired. 

I got pics uploaded tho. Can't figure out in Godot how to spot a specific reigon
of a PNG. So I made PNG's of each of the faces. Probably something I need to 
say in club. "Hey upload every thing individually as a PNG pls and thank." Hey I
did what I couldn't do earlier so that's something.

Man I wish we can do this game.



3/5/2020 SMART Peiod, actually doing something - Josh
Just fixed nodepath complication. Moral of story, copy from scene instead of
trying to type it yourself. Also, I've heard about these things called
singletons, act as loaded data that every scene can access. GODOT's global vars, 
but still a little confusing, not sure if there is script to enable singletons,
seems to be each object has to be connected manually in editor rather through 
code. So that could be a solution, it might not, 

I'm going to continue on script
to have more party members spawn when the combat scene starts. Would like to have
a cool animation and I've heard in unity tweening is the best way to go, don't
know if that's possible in GODOT yet.

Good news! find_node() method only requires the name of the node to find it!
It doesn't need the whole path, was worried this would cause lag during run time
and initially it did appear so when starting the game from the combat scene. 
Anims also run weird, but that problem doesn't occur when entering the scene from 
the title scene. Title scene can act as a load buffer, so players won't notice! 
Unless they're speed runners then that's their problem.

Node paths no longer a problem!
Can change control nodes around ui elements and they'll still find them! Oh that
is so great I have to keep mentioning it. Going to work on importing Dylan's
faces for Sir John.

Actually I had the animation players for every party member stop playing through
a for each type loop. So genius, so proud, it works so well and looks so nice.
NOW I will work on importing lol.

Still haven't imported Dylan's things.





3/3/2020 4th Period Marketing - Josh
I thought I would have a lot of time today with the bloated SMART to get more
work done, but I actually spent all that time reading the D&D monster manual.
Lot's of really interesting stuff in there for world building and other things.
Trying to see what can be applied to our game, but a lot of it is too Fantasy and
not SciFi enough, there's good magic stuff for Golems. Really interested in this
one creature that's constructed of marble and copper and can burst from pillars
as defense guards. I think that's really cool.

Alright not gonna lie, I've been slackin. But I'm going to start working now even
if it's 8:38 I'll still get something done gamers.

Rewriting node paths isn't as hard as I thought, added the partyContainer variable
to shorten some node paths. Animation player renamed StatAnimator. Can use attack
functionality and enemyHP reponds correctly. Going to try to summon more party
members using party member object probably with new faces Dylan added. Just
remembered that the current design doesn't have a name of the character, ugh.

Might have spoken too soon about nodepaths, having issues reconnecting the bars
after adding label for character. Looks nice in my opinion. Would be really nice
if some script could emit the object to the PartyContainer making it easier to
grab in my ActionButtons.gd that's turning into my game manager.



3/2/2020 Monday Morning in CSA - Josh
Just changed PartyMember scene to include character's portrait. Working on script
in Party container to add more instances of those scenes and change portrait and
values and such. Finally fixing node issues with the remodeled stats quadrant in
combat. Might finally be able to click the action button soon haha.

Was in the process of doing that, I have not finished yet. :(



3/1/2020 Sunday Afternoon - Josh
It's been a while...

I forgot I have homework to do for Technical Graphics, ugh.
Finished it but I have less than 30 min to work on somethin. Guess i'll still
hammer out party member blocks.

Instance scenes stack better, got rid of party title. Gotta go to practice, but 
good progress for 30 min :)



2/28/2020 Friday ??? - Josh
I think all I did was work on scene for new party members. Because of that the
game doesn't work right now, the node paths are incorrect in the scripts. Working
on that soon. I'm writing this Sunday afternoon.



2/27/2020 Thursday 5th period flex - Josh
Club today! Hope they appreicate my progress.

Improved health bars, animation loads then on combat intro. Damage dealt to them
displays proportionally instead of just subtracting from 100. Animation can be
skiped in textSkip() method so an attack can deal damage instantly. 

Skill need to consider turn based functionality, considering a panel blocking
input for player in ActionButtons panel saying "enemy attacking" while enemy
attacks are calculated or randomized or whatever. 

I'll upload latest version 7th period to github, haven't done a repository update
for a while lol.

Working on game reconizing an enemy is dead.

Game reconizes enemy is dead. Health bar sends signal to AttackButtons saying an
enemy died. Added text functions to edit text log more effectively.

Fixed kicking the enemy while he's down, can't attack when enemy is dead. Just
takes player back to actionMenu. Now have two global booleans introOver and
skirmishOver to indicate the obvious. Working on intro music to wow club...

Updated Repository. Have test intro and battle music themes, also the
audacity projects are in GODOT too. Whoops.




2/26/2020 Wednesday CSA (I AM playing a game I coded!) - Josh
Sent a screen recording through clickup of my custom texture progressbar, and 
the test animation of it changing values. Looked a little choppy, could just be
the duration or is it the step? IDK looking into it. I am also replacing the
player HP and MP with the custom bar.

Custom bar added for player HP and MP. Named the M mana after chris's suggestion
could be magic tho. 




2/25/2020 Tuesday PurdueClass (totally doing school work) - Josh
Just added method textSkip() in ActionButtons so I don't have to repeat all that
code. Not a big deal, but I am beginning to have concerns on having everything
run through the ActionButtons node. Oh well... Too far along now.

Going to start work on randomness for dealing damage, also:
thinking about having each physical weapon as an item that you have the option
of throwing at an enemy for a good chance at extra damage. A reason for doing it
is that your weapon could have a hidden durability with a sign on the attack
implying how much durability is left. I think that's cool, people would actually
buy daggers for their increased accuracy. But throwing a sword and making the 
mark would deal massive damage bro, yeah.

Randomn Attack function works, when writing (damage) dealt, I wondered about an
armour mechanic that would subtract a certain amount of damage from attacks. Both
the player and enemies can wear armour, with certain items able to destroy it.
Enough damage would destroy armour regardless.

Going to try to have enemy health bar respond to damage. Need UI workaround for
stats tab

Added critical hit feature that prints when max damage on a weapon is reached
Later at home I'm thinking about making my own custom progress bars that look 
much cooler then the defaults.

Sent out the call for more items and ideas in slack... hopefully they will answer

Got a nice purplish looking progress bar in there, will probably have to change
a lot of the textures to match the look of the game. I'm getting tired, think I
will chill on da bed. Might come back later today, might not.




2/24/20 Monday SmartPeriod - Josh
Here we go

Script on each attack button not connects a signal when pressed to function in
ActionButtons, and! it transmit's it's own name. That means I can transmit my the
button object or anything I want in the button. Now the game knows which Attack
button you hit which is huge! Going to experiment with having dictonary spawn
attack buttons. 

Attempted uisng Godot Resources, very confusing. Kind of like a class in Java but
needs a script to interpret it I thing, usually used for much more complex data
structures. I think a dictonary with a key: moveName and an array with 2 values
minDamage and maxDamage.

just figured out how to run addMove method from AttackMenu script, good progress

Now I add attackMoves through ActionButtons script, still use function in 
MoveList so that script is still important. Going to make when you attack pop up
what you attacked on the log.

Moving to another quadrant!!

Log text is working nice. When an attack button is clicked, the log prints "Sir
John used his [attackname(item)]!" and then a new line is used for each. Glad that
\n works. Going to help friend with Calc, so bye lol



2/23/20 Sunday Afternoon - Josh
A new day awaits

Just added scroll container in attackMenu and an AttackMove scene that is just
the button. Have a method in MoveList script that adds attacks now, probably 
will work with a move dictonary like the dict planned for items. 

Showed my screenshots with some friends, not terribly interested. At least not 
yet. >:) 

Going to begin work on...
Attack functionality, why not. Guess a dictonary needs to be put in now lol

Realized that I need to do other homework. Will come back to it, MoveList still
needs some work. Can't correctly connect signal 'pressed' for the attack move
with another function that can get me the properties of the button, like it's
name. Ugh.
 



2/22/20 Saturday Morning - Josh
Decided to make a dev log to track my thoughts, the game is getting big enough
that I think having notes would be handy. 

I have already successfully implemented the title sequence (or at least a test
version) with my own working title, 'SciFi Magic I Guess...' Dylan and Aaron
are trying to think of an actual name. I'm more concerned with the functionality
Oh Dylan said he's almost done with some character creation which should be
interesting. That would help establish some story points and from that a title, 
plot, whole point of the game maybe. 

What I am working on is the Attack menu, the list of moves that would pop up
when the 'Attack' button is clicked. Took me longer than I liked to figure out
how I could do that cleanly in Godot... viewports didn't work, hiding elements
and showing them would but is annoying, but the best option I've found is having
a new scene rendered specifically for the attack menu, and have it spawn from a 
certain 2Dnode. (I named it spawner, duh) So, when I figure out how to use all
these control nodes correctly like margin containers and Vboxes to get the moves
to display how I want them too... I can then make variations of that model for
the magic and item buttons. 

A couple concerns I have, I need to have a script
create each action instead of me just type in every move. Also items would 
especially need a scroll bar functionality to it, and I think each action needs
a little description with it... that would be complicated with the current 
layout. Right now the 'sword', 'fist', text is big which I like. Maybe when you
hover over a button it expands and you see the description? That sounds really
difficult right now but it's a thought. 

Also about this file: I'm fine with people adding to it with their updates and 
thoughts about the game, but don't delete anything, and title your entry like I
did. Ofc I probably don't need to worry, I've been the only one working on this
game for a while ;)

2 Hours later...

Oh my gosh finally figured out how to do the bare minimum of switching through
scene instances for the action menu. So basically, I'm going to load each submenu
(AttackMenu, MagicMenu, ItemMenu) into my ActionButtons object. ActionButtons 
has a child node named ActionMenu which i hide whenever I switch to another menu.
All of the submenus I mentioned earlier are hidden when they are added into the
scene. Each submenu will start with a <- Back button that emits a signal to the
AttackButtons object, that will hide the current submenu and bring back the 
ActionMenu, the main menu. If it's confusing for you it certainly was confusing
for me, It took me so long to figure out how to get that signal from the Back
button to connect to the object, I just needed to be more specific with my
get_node() method. You can see it in ActionButtons.gd. I haven't made another
scene for magic and items, I'm hoping I can come up with a script that can make
spawning the buttons easier to dynamically change your possible actions in the 
game. Especially want to figure out a scroll bar thing for items.

Make sure to have the text label for buttons show stats, unless that info is 
moved in a different place later in development. I really want lunch.

Came back from Qdoba feeling refreshed. Going to start work on item/magic scenes

Hey I'm thinking the magic could look different from attack actions, it could
have more of a grid like matrix with an icon for the spell and show mana cost.
The items would look more like the attack actions, but I'm thinking skinnier
button bars with an x6 showing how much of that item there is. Maybe not have
an x1 but start at x2. I'm going to start item menu scene. 

Status on item scene, I have a ItemMenu that will spawn Item scenes. Still need
to work out how to edit the text on each button for each scene that I spawn, but
the good news is I'm getting better at the control nodes for UI. The temp list
spawned 10 items that look decent on a panel background. More impressively, I
changed the buttons for ActionMenu to use v split and H split for the 4 buttons.
Looking back, I could have used an h and vbox container, but it's whatever. 
The buttons have min sizes and are centered in each corner with a nice margin 
container preserving the edges. It may look rediculous in the node tree, but I
got the hang of it. I have a nice grasp on GODOT control nodes for UI now. :)

Going to start work on item button access....

Item list spawn works. Had to fiddle for a while with margin containers, which 
work a lot better than center containers. Also, I didn't use HSplits, Hboxes
always seem to work better. Item menu has the panel and scroll container for 
all the items in the list, but doesn't have any. The items are spawned in from
the Item scene. A button with two labels, one label with the item name and 
quantity. The other with a discription. Took a lot of fiddling to get the desc
to be how I wanted it, shouldn't have started with a rich text box. Now the 
tricky part I've been putting off, to get the signal from each button in the list
so it will do stuff in the combat scene. I'm trying to go baby mode right now, 
just have the first button '<- back' work to go back to actionMenu. Need probably
a dictonary to feed to list creation so I have reference in combat scene, ugh. 

Good news tho, list menu can dynamically grow thanks to a function in the list
script. I did what I set out to do! But getting button signals will be annoying. 

Yessss finally got it!! Now the back 'item' connects it's pressed signal to the
"backToActionMenu" function I've already written, so it works fine! This node
structure can get confusing when you're changing where objects are on the tree,
especially in this case when I was 2 scripted objects in... my saving grace was
this get_owner() method that brought me to the top Node2D of ItemMenu, then a
step back and I was right in the script I needed to be. Awe yes! 

Now I can either begin working on magicMenu, a dictionary for items,
attack functionality, or a world map. I'm done for the day... I'll upload to
GitHub and then enjoy some YouTube. Good Progress!!!



